Intro
=====

This is the story of a home automation project. I hope it may serve as
help for anyone to come who wants to make the same mistakes again...

After having setup some "simple" Homematic scenarios before, I wanted to
try the "real thing". Setup all hardware and software components by
myself, in an environment that is not limited by existing solutions. I
played around with a Raspberry, made some demo installs, made some LEDs
switch on and off, clicked some relays...

That's when I got the chance to make it all come true: We started to
renovate a building completely, including new electricity. The
challenge: The solution should not be (much) more expensive than a
classical one and the tenants to come should be able to live with it,
both from a usability and reliability point of view.

As far as existing "home stories" on home automation, scattered
everywhere on the internet, are concerned, this is an important
difference (in my humble opinion): There's no way for your wife to shout
in despair "Darling, hurry up, reboot the house, the oven is offline and
the Smiths are coming...".

Disclaimer
----------

All content has been compiled with care and to the best of my knowledge.
Everything you find here is working fine with me.

Much of the content is a derived work of tips and tutorials on the
internet. I think what makes this book unique is the "putting the pieces
together".

However, I cannot assume liability for the up-to-dateness, completeness
or accuracy of the content. Any damage or loss is up to you. Please,
double check what you are doing.

I'm in no way "expert" in the domains to be explored, neither in unix
nor in electrics nor electronics. So, naturally you will probably not
find the best, the cheapest or nicest solution. It's a collection of
working technology...

If you belong to the folks who claim "when there's still a button, it's
not home automation" - then simply look at it as the basic
infrastructure for all the glorious things to come.

If you find any information that's wrong or have ideas for improvement,
feel free to send them to wachenburgweg@gmail.com.

And, finally: Stay away from high voltages. Anything that has to do with
the plain old powerline is out of scope here.

Organization
------------

You may not believe it (yet) - but this is a quite complex project. I
tried my best to organize the book in way to break down the tasks and
issues in small manageable parts.

This way you can decide, what's your level of sophistication and
automation you want to achieve.

The first part will give you the general idea of what is expected. Then
we will immediately select the tools to do so and bring up a "minimal"
working system. Until now we will have designed an "island" system that
can control a single apartment.

The second part will combine the islands and you will see: the whole is
more than the sum of the details.

The third part will add concrete bells and whistles. This is the part
that will never end, there's always one more step to go.

Part four is about the whistles to add sooner or later and some
alternative approaches.

Part five is a giant appendix.

Acknowledgement
---------------

There's quite few in this book invented here. I hope it's the collection
of topics, the production setting or the careful composition of know how
that makes it worth reading.

Nevertheless - this book is written "on the shoulders of giants".
Contributions that made this book possible are countless.

-  Countless bloggers that build up my "Linux Know How"

-  Another countless bloggers that built my "electronics expertise"

-  And then the ones that made me an "Raspberry expert"

-  Countless programmers that provided an incredible software stack for
   **free**

If you can improve this book by corrections or ideas, feel free to
contact me.

And then, a special thanks to my loving and beloved wife: If she would
have suspected what I am about to do and where this will end, this
project would have never seen the light of day

License
-------

This book is covered by a Creative Commons License, the "Attribution -
Non Commercial" one (CC BY-NC 3.0). In non-legalese this means you can
do whatever you want with the content as long as you mention where it is
from and do not take commercial advantage from it.

See http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/3.0/legalcode.

